[Music]
Italy the country that gave us spaghetti
the Colosseum and in a roundabout way
the guy who played turtle so it's a rich
tapestry that's basically what I'm
saying now Italy is holding an election
next Sunday to select a new Parliament
and eventually a new Prime Minister and
you're probably thinking at this point I
don't even know who Italy's current
Prime Minister's I assumed it was just a
Vespa in a tank top well don't be too
hard on yourself there has been a lot of
them this will actually be Italy's 65th
government in just over 70 years so at
that rate is probably hard for Italians
to remember who their leader is for the
record it's this man also for the record
it's not that man I just typed Italian
man into a stock English sight and he is
what came up but this election is coming
at a pivotal time for Italy and the
run-up to it has been toxic Italy is
seeing a rise in political violence
ahead of its national elections on March
4th on Thursday riot equipped police
fired water cannons and tear gas as they
clashed with far-left
protesters marching against a nearby
neo-fascist rally over the past month
there have been series of political
motivated stabbings and beatings in some
Italian cities it's true Italy is in
turmoil and is dabbling with fascism and
that should worry everyone because the
last time they did that they wound up
with Mussolini VIII to put it nicely
Turner to Hitler's hooch and sadly the
conditions are right for fascism to
flourish there Italy is Europe's third
largest economy yet its public debt is a
hundred and thirty percent of GDP for
context that's second only to Greece and
the Bank of Greece is currently just a
goat dancing around an open fire
meanwhile unemployment is high and
politicians have been stoking
anti-immigrant sentiments as more than
600,000 migrants have landed on Italian
shores in the last four years and on top
of all of this italy is facing the same
problem that has plagued american
elections but that Etzioni Serio is a
senior editor at unser Italy's leading
news agency
he says fake news is exploding across
Europe he's such a danger that you know
figures like Pope Francis warn the press
not to spread you know what he actually
made a very strong parallel between a
thesis and this kind of news that's true
the Pope reportedly said fake news is
like getting sexually aroused by feces
it truly is a magical time to be alive
so it seems yet again a large European
country is teetering on the edge of
chaos and because of that it is worth
looking at the Italian election because
everything about it is fascinating and
let's begin with the key figures first
former prime minister Matteo Renzi he is
a centrist and he had to resign
dramatically after making a bold attempt
to reform Italy's political system a
referendum that did not go well for him
it looked quite bush out that I lost and
I said loud and clear even if I have a
lump in my throat I wasn't able to win
long live Italy and good luck to all of
us
wow that is ominous that's like a pilot
coming on over the loudspeaker and
saying well folks looks like old captain
Doug came up short this time anyway sit
back relax and good luck to all of us
and I would say that was Renzi's most
humiliating defeat but that honor really
has to go to his actual appearance in
the 90s on Italy's Wheel of Fortune
pollution a LAN party de Montaigne de
Acho a Merida Navi
[Applause]
[Music]
look it is not good when the host is
joining in I know my only job on this
show is to move things along but the
people have spoken boo boo to you boo
Renzi is attempting a comeback but he's
gonna be facing an uphill battle as it's
at least experiencing a wave of
anti-establishment sentiment and that is
entirely understandable
the country has well-documented problems
with corruption and their government is
famously gridlocked and one of the most
interesting parties attempting to
harness this anger is called 5-star it
started just eight years ago in a very
unusual way he comes onto stage like a
rock star bet big Grillo comedian turned
fire-breathing curse flinging critic of
the status quo Grillo founded his
so-called five star movement first
railing on his blog and more recently in
piazzas across the country against
sky-high taxes Italy's legendary red
tape corrupt politicians greedy
businessmen and lazy bureaucrats that's
right five-star was started by a
comedian who organized demonstrations
called vaffanculo day which translates
to off day it is actually a pretty
great idea for a holiday Hallmark should
really take that concept and run with it
because I can think of a lot of people I
would like to send a card to
have since speck away from the party and
five stars candidate is 31 year old
Luigi DeMaio and I would argue that 31
is a little young to be the leader of a
major European nation to give you some
perspective on that DeMaio is one year
younger than Frankie Muniz and I do not
want him running Italy I don't even want
him running his own Twitter account
because two days ago he tweeted I have a
toothache come on Frankie sell your
brand do better boy the point is when
you see tomorrow in action he lives up
to your worst assumptions of what a 31
year old candidate for Prime Minister
could be what's the basis yet sell this
country is weighed down parties are a
weight with their conflicts of interest
we have to fly high bring this country
and make it fly high and this is why
today we will actually fly
[Music]
cool although to be honest that's not
really flying is it to be accurately
should have said the country is weighed
down with conflicts of interest so we
have to make Italy pathetically hover 20
feet off the ground while spinning in
circles and gripping in attendence hands
and while there is a lot to like about
some of five stars policies there is
also a lot to be concerned about because
while they are against a lot of things
it is much less clear what they actually
fall and in recent months they've shown
in ugly sides taking the increasingly
hardline stance regarding immigration
with DeMaio criticizing some rescue
efforts in the Mediterranean as sea taxi
services that must end in addition some
party members have engaged in vaccine
skepticism and Tamayo recently proposed
rolling back mandatory vaccinations for
children which is pretty dangerous
considering Italy saw nearly 5,000 cases
of measles including four deaths just
last year and that should not be
happening in this day and age it's like
hearing four people were trampled to
death in line at a blockbuster video how
did that happen
we're supposed to have collectively
moved past that by now now next there is
the leak
it's a far-right party led by Matteo
salvini who incredibly liked Renzi also
appeared on an Italian gameshow not just
as a twelve-year-old child but also
later again when he was 20 answering
trivia questions and racing around with
boxes on his feet and I do hope that you
enjoyed those clips because that is as
likable as salvini gets he has grown up
into a truly poisonous politician he
compared the female Speaker of the House
to an inflatable sex doll he's taken a
hard line on immigration saying out of
control immigration leads to drug
dealing
rape theft and violence and he is
trafficked in some pretty alarming
rhetoric he's owning up there's a need
for a mass cleaning even in Italy from
one street to the next from one
neighborhood to the next town square to
town square with strong methods if
necessary Wow
a mask leaning with strong methods he
sounds like a fascist Mary Poppins so
basic
MARY POPPINS and the frightening thing
is not all Italian voters are concerned
by salvini one told the New York Times I
like him because he puts Italians first
and I guess he's a fascist - what can
you do - it's the obvious answer is
don't vote for him that's literally the
only thing you should do and if you're
thinking at this point wait I think I
know someone who might really hit it off
with this guy well don't worry
of course they've met of course they
have oh I'm sorry you thought maybe
Trump would not pop up in this story
think again he is truly the Forrest Gump
of human misery but this is this is true
so we met with from saw in the 2016
campaign and Trump reportedly told
salvini that he hoped he would become
Prime Minister of Italy soon and I hope
sincerely that that does not happen
because Albania stone has attracted some
nasty followers just look at what
happened earlier this month the
far-right supporter in central Italy is
accused of opening fire on African
migrants on Saturday and wounding six of
them after the shooting he drove in
front of a war monument and made a
fascist salute wearing what looked like
an Italian flag
now that man in question reportedly
called salvini his captain and was one
of the league's candidates for a local
election last year which is awful
although it should be noted that in that
election he received no votes which
means not only did his family and
friends not vote for him he didn't even
vote for himself
even if you are a racist murderous piece
of if you run for anything you
shall at least get one vote or you're
just a idiot so in the midst of
economic uncertainty fake news and race
baiting it is clear that what Italy
needs is someone to step up and lead
them out of trouble I'm talking about a
bold new voice a fresh leader of
tomorrow so please show us Italy who
shall be your knight in shining armor
[Applause]
many thought he was politically finished
done but Silvio Berlusconi it's a list
full time Prime Minister it's making a
comeback
oh it's true he's back Silvio Berlusconi
sorry that's HPV Silvio Berlusconi sorry
that's just a condom filled with
marinara sauce Silvio Berlusconi has
returned and the most recent polls
actually had his coalition in the lead
so if Italy is seriously considering
taking Berlusconi back it is worth the
rest of us brushing up on him because he
is one of history's most ludicrous
humans his ego is legendary he once
claimed my greatness is without question
my human substance my history other
people dreamed to have and in the years
that Berlusconi was in power he built a
quasi cult of personality around himself
perhaps best exemplified by this
campaign song from 2008
[Music]
they're crazy
[Applause]
has to literally be silvio berlusconi's
fantasy a world where he's apparently
the only man left on earth and every
woman thinks about him whilst fondling
produce obviously what most people know
about Berlusconi can be summed up in two
words the word Bunga twice he famously
hosted sex parties which allegedly
featured scores of orgies and female
guests dressed up as nuns nurses and
even Barack Obama which is both deeply
weird and somehow deeply progressive
Silvio Berlusconi would like to explore
a mixed-race quasi homosexual experience
put on your pig monster but but that is
just the beginning he owns a stake in TV
channel some of which of broadcast shows
that have been criticized for their
course content including literally
treating women like pieces of meat but
that's not all he also owned a football
team called AC milan but couldn't even
talk to their players without getting
weird when are you going to introduce me
to your wife just to see her I'm old I
can't do it anymore
but because everyone says she is the
prettiest one oh what a terrific boss
hello there employee where's your spouse
I'd like to don't worry I'm too old
to her now otherwise I would though
we're having fun aren't we paid
subordinates we do have fun repressible
horndog is funny but it's worth
remembering those bunker bunker parties
allegedly featured a 17 year old girl
who Berlusconi paid for sex and when the
whole scandal broke his response was
less than charming Hashem pray y cuando
una activity' in interval to the
Illawarra I have always worked with no
interruption and if it sometimes happens
to me to see the face of a beautiful
girl I say better to like girls than to
be gay that's a terrible thing to say
and it's not even connected to the
terrible thing you're being accused of
he's basically Bernie Madoff saying hey
but it would be a complete crook than to
be Porto Rican you Bernie
did you just make this worse and on the
world stage Berlusconi's diplomacy left
a lot to be desired he joked more than
once the President Obama was tanned and
allegedly made a comment about Angela
Merkel that was so controversial he was
confronted about it in an interview that
was spectacularly awkward do you have a
particular problem with angular Merkel
is it true you called her an unfuckable
lard-ass I would never come
I have never in excuse me I have never
in 20 years of politics insulted anybody
ever
oh please play so real your words say no
but your face silence and history of
human interaction say see see and by the
way someone who looks like this should
never say a thing about anyone elses
physical appearance he looks like what
would happen if a smoked brisket
Andy Garcia Berlusconi's closest friend
on the world stage is unsurprisingly
Vladimir Putin they are so close that
Berlusconi wants gang Putin this actual
bedspread with a picture of them on it
which isn't just creepy it's pointless
we all know that Putin doesn't sleep in
a bed at night he just sits in a chair
and stares of the potato until it bakes
and if you think having a bedspread made
of you and your friend is childish
that's because Berlusconi is nothing if
he is not a gigantic child he even had a
remote-controlled volcano built in his
house featuring everything from fire to
artificial earth tremors this thing was
apparently extremely realistic because
at one point Berlusconi's neighbors were
so alarmed by the pelting flames they
called the fire brigade and i would love
to show you a photo of it but amazingly
we can't find one anywhere which is
insane because it's not like there
aren't hundreds of ludicrous photos
involving Berlusconi here is one of him
receiving a rifle from Gaddafi here is
one of him and Putin wearing matching
furry hats
and here is one of them dressed like
pitbull at a slumber party the point is
a photo of a belching in-home volcana
wouldn't even be in his top three
weirdest photos but what is even more
amazing about Berlusconi's comeback is
Italy was done with him he left office
after he was finally convicted of tax
fraud and his conviction in 2013
included banning him from serving in
public office for six years and I know
what you might be thinking now 2013 plus
6 is 2019 and we did crunch the numbers
on that all week and it turns out it is
a year from now so Berlusconi is still
banned and yet he's been going on a
charm offensive with videos online of
him either snuggling adorably with a
baby lamb or because it's Berlusconi
getting to second base with an
inappropriately young sheep and he's
positioning himself as a kingmaker in
this election and may well end up having
a key role in picking the next leader
and that is not good because his
alliance includes Matteo salvini the
game show fascist from earlier who could
well get a high-power position in the
new administration so really what I'm
saying is you have to feel for Italy
here because the outcomes do not look
good there are a lot of bad options
ranging from an awful Prime Minister to
know outright winner plunging Italy into
political limbo but but wait because
there's actually one more wild card here
under Italian law if the governing
coalition whoever that is could still
pick a non politician who's had nothing
to do with this campaign so far so it
could be some random jackass that Italy
has never heard of and if you don't see
where I'm going with this you've clearly
never seen this show before
because we asked half a dozen Italian
legal experts and while they told me
that I couldn't run for Prime Minister
of Italy they also admitted there is no
explicit provision in the Italian
Constitution that says non-citizens
can't run for prime minister so as far
as I'm concerned
we'll have ourselves an Air Bud scenario
remember the rules of basketball did not
explicitly state that he couldn't play
next thing you know the dogs dunking
well I am that dog Italy so alley-oop
like me just as good a
leader as many of your political figures
you got a party started by a comedian
technically on one of those you like
politician to appear on TV with animals
please it's like Jumanji up in here
someone bring me my lambo little teacher
do you like this Italy of course you do
yes exactly
plenty more where this came from I've
got 40 lambs backstage thank you so much
thank you everybody
Italy you seem to like candidates of the
penis contestants on Italian game shows
well sadly I have not actually done that
however since you are swimming in fake
news over there I see absolutely no
reason not to lie and tell you that I
have here is me on an old Italian game
show
[Music]
[Applause]
or Atari laughter Luciani pasta
primavera pasta primavera no no no no no
no buster
we gotta fast back
[Applause]
[Music]
why did I go to the trouble of faking a
gameshow in which I lost I think deep
down it's just who I am
oh and one final thing Italy I know that
Berlusconi has a remote-control volcano
that he won't let you see
well Italia
[Applause]
before the awesome power
maybe a complete until the fast but be
honest incredibly I am part of your
worst option
you